/*
 Connecting Google Assistant (using IFTTT) to make the NodeMCU work with voice commands BY SOHEL
 Note: Follow this steps once you have working LED connection with blynk app
       i am using pin d7 for led control



We cannot connect the Google Assistant to the NodeMCU directly, and that is the only reason we are using the Blynk app. 
Blynk app can directly connect to the NodeMCU and send data to it. So, if we can send the voice commands interpreted 
by google assistant directly to the Blynk app, the Blynk app can then forward those commands to the NodeMCU.
But the problem is Google Assistant cannot directly understand foreign commands like “turn on the fan” or “turn on relay one” etc. 
on its own. So, to solve this we use another intermediate app/website called ‘IFTTT’.


Simply, to control our home appliances over the internet we are using NodeMCU and to connect NodeMCU with the home appliances 
we use a relay board. Now to send on or off signals to the NodeMCU we use our smartphone, and we do this using the Blynk app.
But we want to send the on or off signals using voice commands. 
To do this we use google assistant in our smartphone and an app called IFTTT.

So, in the end what will happen is, when we say a voice command like “ok google turn on the light” to the Google Assistant,
Google Assistant sends that this foreign command to IFTTT. IFTTT interprets this command and sends an On or Off signal to 
the Blynk app via the Blynk Server. Blynk will then send this signal to the NodeMCU and then to our electrical appliances.

*/

1. Go to IFTTT’s website and sign up to it using your Google Account.

2. After Signing in click on My Applets from the header and select New Applet.

3. Click on ‘this’

4. Search for Google Assistant and select it. And then Click on Connect.

5. At this point IFTTT will ask you permission to use your google account to add voice commands to it.
   Which you simply allow by clicking on ‘Allow’.

6. Select the card that says “Say a simple phrase”.

7. Next, for the first textbox type the phrase that you want to say to Google Assistant. 
   It can be anything such as “Turn on the LED”, “Turn on the fan” or anything you like.
   
8. For the next two text boxes, you write some other ways to say the first command. For example,
   if in the first textbox you wrote “Turn on the LED”, then in the second and third textboxes
   you can write something like “Turn the LED On” or “Please Turn on the LED” 
   
9. In the fourth textbox type the reply that Google Assistant should respond with. For example, “Okay, Turning on the LED”.

10. Finally, click on ‘Create Trigger’.

11. ow, click on that IFTTT if this than that THAT button [Home Automation using NodeMCU and google assistant] and type webhooks select it, and click connect. 
    Webhooks will allow us to send commands to the Blynk Server.
    
12. Now, in the URL field type this URL:

         http://188.166.206.43/ YourAuthTokenHere / update / DigitalPinToBeUpdateHere
         
  This is the URL of Blynk Server of India, but it should work for other places as well. 
  Replace the “YourAuthTokenHere” part with your Blynk Auth token that you received in the mail.
  And “DigitalPinToBeUpdateHere” part with the Digital pin of NodeMCU that is to be updated. 
  So, as we assigned the Digital Pin D3 of NodeMCU to relay one we must write D3 in place of “DigitalPinToBeUpdateHere”
  But wait we cannot write D3 there, because when Blynk Server receives this command from IFTTT it assumes as if the 
  command it received was to be sent to an ‘Arduino Uno’ board,
   but in our case, we are sending it to NodeMCU.         

13. Next, Select the ‘Method’ field as PUT

14. Select ‘Content type’ as Application/JSON.

15. For the ‘Body’ type this:   [“1”]

16. Now click on ‘Create Action’ and then Finish.

17. Similarly, we create another applet to turn off the relay. Repeat all the steps above from step 4 except the following changes:

    In step 8 and 9, instead of writing “Turn on the LED”, type “Turn off the LED”
    In step 15, instead of [“1”], type [“0”].
    
 18. ALL DONE NOW TO GOOGLE ASSISTANCE and say "Turn on the LED"
 

